DOCS-5585 Adds Default Rules Index Page + Single Sourcing Logic for Python Rulesets Documentation (#18387)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/static_analysis/rules/_index.md

further_reading:
  - link: "/continuous_integration/static_analysis/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Learn about Datadog Static Analysis"
---

## Overview

{{% site-region region="us,us3,us5,eu,ap1" %}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">
  Static Analysis is in private beta. Python is the only supported language. To request access, <a href="/help">contact Support</a>.
</div>
{{% /site-region %}}

{{% site-region region="gov" %}}
<div class="alert alert-danger">
    Static Analysis is not available for the {{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}} site.
</div>
{{% /site-region %}}

Datadog Static Analysis provides out-of-the-box rules to help detect violations in your CI/CD pipelines in code reviews and identify bugs, security, and maintainability issues. For more information, see the [Static Analysis documentation][1].

## Rules

### Follow best practices for writing Python code

**Ruleset ID:** `python-best-practices`

Best practices for Python to write efficient and bug-free code.

{{< partial name="continuous_integration/rule-list-python-best-practices.html" >}}

<br>

### Enforce Python code style

**Ruleset ID:** `python-code-style`

> Rules to enforce Python code style

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules to enforce Python code style.
```

{{< sa-rule-list "python_code_style_data" >}}

<br>

> ### Check Python program structure (e.g. nested loops, etc.)

Author: ```suggestion
### Check Python program structure (such as nested loops and more)
```

> ### Check Python program structure (such as nested loops and more)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check Python program structure
```

> ### Check Python program structure (e.g. nested loops, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check Python program structure
```

**Ruleset ID:** `python-design`

> Rules to check your Python program structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules to check your Python program structure, including things like nested loops.
```

{{< partial name="continuous_integration/rule-list-python-design.html" >}}

<br>

> ### Rules specific for Django best practices and security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check for Django best practices and security
```

**Ruleset ID:** `python-django`

> Rules made specifically for Django best practices and security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules specifically for Django best practices and security.
```

{{< partial name="continuous_integration/rule-list-python-django.html" >}}

<br>

> ### Rules for Flask best practices and security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check for Flask best practices and security
```

**Ruleset ID:** `python-flask`

> Rules made specifically for Flask best practices and security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules specifically for Flask best practices and security.
```

{{< partial name="continuous_integration/rule-list-python-flask.html" >}}

<br>

> ### Check your Python code for wording issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check for wording issues
```

Reviewer 2: I like to keep `Python` or a Python library (`Flask`, `Django`) in the heading for now because in the not too distant future, we'll start adding rulesets for different languages and this will help differentiate rulesets for now.
